# Ring Consistent Hashing in Java

This repository contains a Java implementation of ring consistent hashing, a technique for distributing data across a cluster of servers in a way that minimizes the amount of data that needs to be moved when a server is added or removed from the cluster. The implementation includes two hashing functions, Murmur and FNV, which can be used to generate hash values for keys.

## Usage

To use the ring consistent hashing implementation, you can create a ConsistentHash object and add servers to it using the addServer method:

```
ConsistentHash  ring = new ConsistentHash<>(new Murmur(), 100);
hash.addNode("server1");
hash.addNode("server2");
hash.addNode("server3");
```

Once you have added servers to the hash, you can use the getServer method to determine which server a given key should be assigned to:
```
String key = "mykey";
String server = ring.chooseNode(key);
```

The getServer method will return the name of the server that the key should be assigned to, based on the hash value generated by the selected hashing function.

## Hashing Functions

The implementation includes two hashing functions, Murmur and FNV. You can choose which hashing function to use when you create a ConsistentHash object:

ConsistentHash ring = new ConsistentHash(new FNV, 100);


Both hashing functions implement the HashFunction interface, which defines a single method, hash, that takes a key as input and returns a hash value as a long. You can also implement your own custom hashing function by implementing the HashFunction interface and passing an instance of your implementation to the ConsistentHash constructor.

## License

This implementation is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you find a bug or have a feature request, please open an issue or submit a pull request.
